What's up everybody? This is module two, Viral App Design. My name is Hunter. A
little
bit of background on myself. I have been designing Viral Consumer Apps since
2017. My apps have
done over 300 million downloads. Currently have over 150 million monthly active
users.
I have generated over 100 million dollars in revenue across social, dating,
lifestyle,
fintech, many categories of apps. I've been in the game for eight years. I'm 26
now. I
started when I was just high school. So if you're a young guy or a young girl
watching
this, I was at the beginning not too long ago. It's definitely an industry that
you cut your
teeth on and you call through the mud, but it's worth it. Today I'm really
excited because
I'm going to get to talk about my favorite part of building an app, which is
the design.
We're not going to just have a Figma how-to. We're really going to talk about
frameworks,
key terms, methodologies, and really general mindset of how to build a Viral
App. I'm going
to try to get you into that mindset and you can apply these lessons and these
frameworks
across your apps and your ideas in any niche. I'm going to talk about really
what makes
an app go viral. That's the first question. What makes an app go viral? There's
a number
of things that make an app go viral. The way that I've broken it down is like
this. There
are emotional hooks and core human drivers. There's something called the Maslow
's hierarchy
of needs. This is something that you're concept in psychology. You have the
bottom needs, which
are more basic. As you go up the pyramid, you reach self-actualization. These
are the
highest level of needs, the highest vibration needs. Apps that go viral are
usually targeting
one of these needs. Belongingness and love. That's a great example. There's a
lot of
apps that target that. A lot of dating apps that target that. Esteem needs,
prestige,
feeling of accomplishment. I would say an app like Duolingo, where you're
hitting streaks
or Kalei. You're logging your meals and maintaining your consistency. Safety
needs
could be other kinds of social apps. Social apps like GAS from 2022. People
wanted to
know, do people think I'm cool? Do people think I'm nice? Do people think I'm
funny?
NGL would follow that as well. What do my friends think about me? These are
core human
drivers. These are core human needs. Maslow's hierarchy of needs is a great
thing to look
at whenever you're building apps. Always just remember that this is why people
do things.
I think it's really important to remember that. When you're looking at your
apps and
you're looking at what is my app doing, what is it providing to people in terms
of a core
human driver and a core need. I would take a look at this and try to figure out
where
you plot on the pyramid. Depending on where you are, it will inform things like
you're
onboarding, like how much user investment you want in the product prior to
coming in.
It will also inform what is the core action of the product. I think this is an
important
thing to look at and something I've used for many years.
Some examples of this, this is one of my apps. I co-founded NGL. This did over
300 million
downloads. The core human driver in this app is what do people think about me?
Everybody
wants to know what their friends think about them, especially when there's no
filter or
it's anonymous. People want to know. This is a very effective driver because
people
will jump through hoops and go down a somewhat complicated UX route in order to
satisfy this
drive. That's NGL's core driver. Gas, another viral app from 2022, was really
about who
likes me. Gas was about sending anonymous compliments. It was about who likes
me, who
thinks I have nice hair, who thinks I have nice eyes, who thinks that I'm a
great person.
That's a fundamental need. Who likes me? We have what do people think about me
and who
likes me? Then we have T. This is a newer app. It's blown up. This is really
what are they
saying about me? If I'm a guy, I want to know what they're saying about me
because it's
a women's only app. Or if I'm a girl, what are they saying about someone? This
app is
extremely effective at getting a core human need, wanting to know what people
are saying
about you or somebody else. Really struck a chord and that's why they went
number one.
Be real. I don't remember it's be real. The core human driver in be real, it
was like
you would open the app because you get notification. Your friend posted. You
wanted to see what
your friend posted. You wanted to see it. You were willing to take a picture.
What
pictured in my friend post? This is another really core human driver. All these
apps
went number one on the app store. That's why we talked about them. These are
apps that
went super viral, number one on the app store, millions and millions of
downloads. That's
really what I look at when it comes to emotional hooks and core human drivers.
The next thing
we're going to talk about is K-factor. I wrote it out right here. It's super
simple. It's
the average number of new users, each user invites. Pretty simple. I'm a
believer that
when you build a product, you should have the product really serve as the
marketing as well.
I like product-led growth. I love to encourage users to share. I love to get a
certain percentage
of users as many as possible to do specific actions to share or invite contacts
, share
an asset on social media. I really always like to aim for a K-factor greater
than one.
This is a big part of my methodology. I'm always thinking about how can we get
a pile
of users, bring them into the product, and then we know that at minimum, they
're going to
bring back everybody plus 10%, or everybody plus 50%, or in the case of an app
like NGL,
everybody times two, three, five. K-factor is extremely important and something
to think
about. This is a term you're going to hear a lot across viral apps, not just in
design,
but across everything. Great. This is a little story time. This was when NGL
went number
one in the App Store, which was an awesome experience that was super grateful.
This is
really when I talk about K-factor. This is what I'm really talking about. This
is the
hourly downloads for NGL. This was one of our highest hours. You see how it
just goes
straight up. This is what's called having really a high K-factor. When you go
from 1,000 downloads,
this was about a week or so later, two weeks later, not even. Now we have a
million users
in the last 30 minutes. I think it's really important. Use unique trackable
links, very
very important because you want to know where the growth is coming from. I tell
this to
founders. These are just some tips. You have to implement data, mix panel,
amplitude,
track every user event because we want to know what's going on in every facet
of the
app because this is going to help us maximize K-factor. This is just an
important tip.
But when you have good traction, this is a little meme that we've said to run
at one
of my companies, that makes panel and amplitude these services, they want their
money. I guess
a good problem to have when it works. But yes, unique trackable links, make
sure that
I love using reflinks for users. I'm a big fan of that so I can track
everything and
know which users coming from which user. I'm a big fan of that. Okay, so the
next thing
we're going to talk about is social proof. So queues showing the apps
popularity and acceptance
as socially normative. This loose user trust and engagement. The way that I see
social
proof is it really establishes comfort. At the end of the day, you want to see
that other
people are doing the thing that the app is asking you to do. For apps like NGL,
social
proof was critical to our success. The reason that the app succeeded is enough
people saw
their friends doing it. So then they decided to do it because it was socially
normal. This
can also be not just people posting links and participating in loops like NGL.
This could
be just having a lot of views on TikTok videos for your app. Having lots of
people see your
app, lots of eyeballs creates a sense of social proof and knowing that people
know that this
app does this thing and it's known and it's widely accepted and understood.
Social proof
really is kind of it's about enough users have comprehended the purpose of your
app and
expressed it, shared it, amplified it to the point where people don't feel
weird for using
it or posting it. And I think social proof is something that you just really
always have
to be thinking about because certain apps have different ways of implementing
social proof.
And we'll obviously talk about that. So I love to talk about the bandalagging
effect,
right? Classic human behavior, right? We are more willing to like a video with
more likes or more
willing to engage with something that is perceived as more popular. Humans have
a tendency to really
like, as I say, arbitrary big numbers, right? They put a power into it and it
makes sense, right?
It's the wisdom of the crowd, right? If the crowd has deemed it this video or
this piece of content
or this app or whatever it is, if it's perceived as a lot of people are using
it, then somehow
it's perceived as once again socially normative, right? Like we talked about up
here with social
proof. So bandalagging effect is super important and a lot of apps, especially
viral apps that are
in consumer social really thrive on creating bandalagging effect. And this is
something that I really
work on creating with my apps is really getting everybody to do the same thing
at the same time,
because everybody is doing it and they all hop on the bandwagon because they
see everybody doing
it, right? And it comes down to really knowing how to just activate that pocket
of users to
initiate the bandwagon effect. But when you're designing the apps, you really
have to think about
how do you get someone to hop on this bandwagon? How do you get them to join in
with the fun?
And that really comes down to social proof as a big thing there, right? You
want them to feel
comfortable and confident to do the thing that you're asking them to do. So
yeah, make people feel
socially acceptable by sharing or inviting. Sharing should maintain or boost
social capital. Totally
agree with you know, and I think certain apps cannot be shared like this, right
? You know,
I'm really talking about your some apps can be shared, right? Some apps you
could share,
you know, your streak on dual lingo, right? You can share, you know, your, your
NGL link, right?
You can share in someone, sent you a compliment on gas, right? You could, you
know, you could share
a TikTok over iMessage to your friend, right? Like there's, there's, you know,
sharing should
not decrease social capital, right? So sharing a dating app is pretty difficult
, right? That's
a more difficult one. Getting someone to post if they're on a dating app, that
's really difficult,
right? So, you know, always keep in mind like there is something about boosting
social capital
that's very important and it, and it, it all comes back to, you know, comfort
and security,
which we talked about earlier with, you know, Maslow's hierarchy of needs,
and then sharing on different platforms, right? There's different motivations.
The things that
you share on Instagram are different than the things that you would share on
Snapchat or the
things you share on X. This is especially true when targeting younger users,
right? Most of my apps
have been used in the core demo of, you know, 18 to 30. So really, you have to
look at what are
people posting on their Instagram? What are they willing to post on their
Instagram? You know,
some things are better posted on Snapchat. You know, I had an app called Wink
that I was a designer
of. We did 70 million downloads. I built that with my first mentor who created
Musically,
he was the president of the company, and we learned a lot in that app. That app
used to,
you know, a old, you know, growth loop on Snapchat, right? And it worked on
Snapchat really well,
because the app was too, you know, about making friends on Snapchat. NGL really
worked off of
Instagram. You know, there had never been an anonymous app that had been built
on Instagram
prior to NGL. We were the first. And when we took off on Instagram, it then
permeated to other
platforms, right? X, for example, I've launched things exclusively on X. My Fin
Tech platform,
DAGS, was exclusively on X. We used X as the primary driver of organic viral
growth with sharing
links similar to NGL sharing link with this timeline X. The point of what I'm
saying is that
sharing on IG, sharing on Snap, sharing on X all have different motivations,
and there's a different
quality filter. So I always like to think about what is postable on these
platforms.
And it's just something to think about, right? You won't post the same thing on
X that you post
on Instagram or Snapchat or any other platform, or you won't send the same
things over text that
you would post on your story, right? So you have to understand the context in
which your app can
be shared in order to optimize for that virality. Great. So virality. Now we're
going to talk about
viral growth loops. This is a word I use a lot. This is a word I tweet a lot.
This is where I say a lot.
You're going to hear me say this a lot. The way that I summed it up is a viral
growth loop
is a self-sustaining cycle where a user's action triggers new users to join,
which creates a hockey
stick growth, right? I showed earlier in the previous section on K-factor
examples of hockey stick growth,
that growth came from a viral loop. So I also like to say if loops are strong
enough,
they will reengage users who have churned, right? So you can get people to
share your app or share
content from your app and push it out more and more, or create UGC videos for
your app,
then ultimately users that have already encountered your app and downloaded it
will be
brought in again through the net and reactivated. So that's something just to
always consider
with building these kinds of loops is yes, it's a self-sustaining growth of new
users,
but also it's bringing users in that have already churned because you're still
getting those users,
still having lots of users engage, the fly reel is still including the people
that have churned.
Keep that in mind that that's really one of the major things about viral loops
that I like to
think about is how do you make sure you reengage existing users, right? So we
'll talk more about
that later of course. Right now I'm going to talk about explicit loops, right?
So this is the NGL
flow right here. We're going to walk through the flow and I'm going to explain
exactly how it works
and why I designed the way I did it. So this is the share asset. You can just
post the link by itself,
you know, and put any photo you want, but this is the main share asset that we
direct people to
post. We tried many different share assets. So we tried share assets that were
very bright colored,
we tried share assets with different size profile pictures, we tried different
call to actions
with the text. This is ultimately the one that won because it was the most
direct. It was directly
talking at the user, send me anonymous messages. The link was very easily
framed there. Your eye
goes exactly where it needs to go. So this is the initial touch point for every
user in NGL.
Every user that comes into NGL discovers it by encountering it in the wild on
their friend's
Instagram story. So your initial touch point essentially is your friend
endorsing this product,
which is very powerful, right? So once you tap on the link, you go to a website
inside of Instagram
where you can send a message. You can tap on the dice to get example messages
and these also,
you know, change every second or so. So you can send a message. When you send
it,
we tell you to get your own messages or send another message. When you get your
own messages,
you are sent to the app store where you download the app. Then pretend it's
your profile picture
not mine. Then you come to the app, you follow the instructions and keep in
mind, you came from
your friend doing this. Right? So when I talked about earlier the notion of
getting people through,
you know, getting earlier, you came from your friend. Your friend posted this.
You sent a message.
You did that core action that you now know your friends are going to do. So
this is one of the
key learnings that I found because the motivation was so strong, we were able
to get users through
a four step tutorial. So you follow the instructions, copy your link, share
your link in your story,
and then these four steps right here where you click on this ticker button,
click on link,
we tell you to paste your link, we tell you to frame your link, and then you go
and do it for
10 noms, this is your PFP not mine. Then you get messages. Remember, you sent a
message to your
friend at the beginning of this loop. Now you get messages. So notifications
are super important,
super, super important. Then here's your messages in your app. You open the
messages,
you can reply by putting it on your story, and then you can type your response.
So really what this is
in summed up is clear expectation, minimal actions, and a variable reward
formula. That's what's
happening here. You're starting with seeing what's going to happen to you,
right? You're starting
with seeing your friend posted a link and your friend got replies, right?
Because you'll see
your friend posted a link and maybe they put in, they got a couple replies as
well. In many cases,
actually, we found that users wouldn't actually send messages until where the
bulk of users
wouldn't send messages until their friend had already shared a reply. Because
sometimes your
friend posted a link, you're like, oh, but nobody replied to it. So there was a
user comfort there,
too, by getting a user to share just the link and share the replies, then more
people sent replies,
because those people felt comfortable to do it. So it's an interesting kind of
comfort level on both
sides. And this is something that I think about in viral design. So this is the
NGL case study,
which was I said an explicit, explicit loop, right? Tap on my NGL links, any
messages, and then maybe
you'll get your own messages. Then there are implicit loops, right? So for
example, TikTok.
TikTok, whenever you export a video and send it to your friend, there's always
a watermark. And the
watermark bounces around the screen, so you can't really crop it out. And there
are sites where you
literally crop out the TikTok watermark, or they take the watermark off because
people don't like it.
But it was a very effective growth loop, because what TikTok did is just had
videos from TikTok
posted on Instagram, posted onto various platforms, posted on YouTube, and then
people would see,
oh, this is a funny video, it's an energy video of TikTok. I'm going to go
download TikTok. And
then once they had TikTok, and they see more funny TikToks, they think about,
oh, I should
probably open up TikTok, right? So this is an implicit one, implicit growth
loop here,
because you're seeing the TikTok logo, you're registering the content came from
there,
but it's not asking you to tap a link, it's not asking you to do some kind of
core action,
it's simply reminding you that this piece of content came from this app, so you
should maybe
open that app at some point, maybe now or maybe later. And this is really a big
strategy of how
TikTok was able to take over over the last, you know, five, six years.
So to review, we have four major terms that we define emotional hooks in core
human drivers,
right? This is what gets people into a viral app, and it's important to think
about this with
the viral design aspect. How do we carry in the emotional hook from that ad,
from that UGC content,
or from your friend posting something on their social media, or your friend
sending you something,
how do we carry that emotional hook into the design? How do we target the right
core,
even driver? K-factor, right? K-factor like we talked about is super important
for, you know,
maintaining and tracking how viral your app actually is. So I am also really
making sure that you
orient your decisions around K-factor. It's very important. So like I said,
always track
everything and figure out where your users are coming from. We also talked
about social proof,
right? And how social proof is really important, establishing comfort.
And comfort is essential to create a viral growth loop, right?
Virile growth loops, something that have been used to grow massive apps across
multiple sectors,
right? We talked about TikTok with an implicit, you know, growth loop with the
watermark,
Vine did that, X is now doing that. That's a very common practice. NGL with
link sharing,
you know, many other apps use link sharing as well now. And yeah, really, that
's the main bulk of
kind of this first module. These are the, I think, very important terms that I
'm always thinking
about when I'm designing. And, you know, before we jump into Figma, before we
talk about branding,
and we talk about, you know, colors and fonts and, you know, that fun stuff
that like flows and user
journeys and on-boarding and, you know, what to ask for. Like, I really think
it's important to
just remember what makes an app go viral and why we are going to design things
the way we're
going to design them and how we're going to think about these things. So, yeah,
one thing I'm going
to, I'm going to talk about now. I'm going to kind of just kick off the next
section right now.
Okay, so this is going to be like a rough draft of me talking about curating
the first session.
So, section two of my viral app design module is called curating the first
session.
A lot of people think about apps in terms of D1, D7, D30, etc. I think of apps
more in terms of
section one, session two, etc. I think this makes decision making much easier
because we're focused
on sessions. We're not focused on more of the long tail retentive type features
. I like to focus
first on like, what are they doing in session one? Section one is the most
important, right? So,
we're going to talk about onboarding. That's going to be part of this section.
We're going to talk
about core actions, right? What are the things that you're doing on the app?
You know, like I said,
we're talking about onboarding the initial experience. What questions are we
asking the users?
What do they have to provide and sign up as far as information building
profiles?
Long onboarding versus short onboarding. We're going to talk about what the
benefits are
for long versus short versus long. And we're going to talk about everything in
onboarding.
I'm going to show examples of onboarding of my own apps, as well as apps of
other members of
Amafia. We're also talking about core actions. Core actions is the action that
people are taking
on your app the majority of the time. This is the most important essential
action that users are
taking. In the example of Snapchat, it's sending snaps, right? Pretty simple.
For TikTok, it's scrolling
the for you. For NGL, it's posting a link and getting replies from your
followers.
Figuring out your core action is essential for also figuring out short versus
medium versus long
onboarding. And your core action dictates what information you're going to ask
people to do,
because you may not need all the permissions, right? We're going to talk about
permission,
about notification permissions, camera permissions, contact permissions, how to
prompt them correctly,
right? Because you have to figure out what the core action is going to be to
know what the
onboarding is going to require. And then it kind of all becomes this self-sust
aining cycle, right?
So don't think of these as things in direct order. We're going to be figuring
this out at the same time.
So we're talking about single player versus multiplayer experiences, right?
Designing a single player
app versus designing a multiplayer app and what that means. We're talking about
magic moments,
right? How do we deliver a dopamine hit in the app? How do we get people
excited?
What's that moment where they feel the app's value and they lock in that
comprehension
of the app and its purpose for Tinder, it's getting a match, right? For NGL, it
's getting a message on
your link for, you know, Duolingo, it's hitting a streak for Snapchat. It's
also maintaining a streak,
right? I like to use notifications, confetti, haptics, excitement, right?
Making magic moments,
truly magic. And we're going to show a few examples of magic moments.
Inwright, share, and paywalls, right? We're going to talk about walls and walls
versus hurdles.
You were going to talk about what a hard gate is, hard gate for sharing, hard
gate for inviting,
hard, you know, a hard paywall. We're going to talk about various examples of
these and we're
going to show them. North Star Metrics. The North Star metric is the key metric
reflecting user value in viral success, which guides design choices. Users
funding wallets on
bags is a North Star metric. NGL posting is a North Star metric. North Star
metrics affect
every other metric. It's the main driver of success for the app. And it should
be very obvious to
identify, right? What that North Star is. For Zoom University, my viral double
dating app,
the North Star metric was number of minutes per average call time. We found
when the call time
was higher, people had better conversations with one another, which led to more
magic moments of
people connecting and getting dropped into group chats, right? Having that
match experience.
And so we wanted to maximize quality of call.
This is this section and I'm really excited to dive into this section because
there's a lot of great things to talk about. So let's start with onboarding.
Alright, welcome back. We're going to do the next round. This is titled cur
ating the first
session. One of the questions I get asked extremely often is always about
people ask about
retention. People ask about, you know, D1, D7 retention, D30, and we talked, we
had these
conversations about retention. I like to have those conversations, but really
the conversation I
enjoy more than I think is more impactful to the success of the viral app is
talking about
sessions, not talking in terms of days, talking in terms of sessions, because
users can churn out
very, very quickly. If you don't have a great session one, session two, etc,
etc. experience.
So we're going to talk about curating the first session. Now we're going to
talk about what it is
that we're going to be doing to curate the first session. So we're going to hop
in now with onboarding.
So onboarding is, you know, the way I define it is the initial experience that
conveys value in
hooks users. So short onboarding and long onboarding, this is the biggest
question I get as well.
People ask me, Hunter, should I have short onboarding or long onboarding? What
is the correct answer?
So I say there is no correct answer. It just depends what you're maximizing for
it. So I have
it here. So short maximizes for speed and virality, right, because you want to
get them into the
product quickly, right, you want to get them to hit the end of onboarding, get
in there fast,
and do whatever core actions the app requires them to do. But long onboarding,
it does risk
that friction, but it creates investment by it creates some cost. If you spend
a lot of time in
onboarding, filling out personal information for a profile like a dating app,
or, you know,
going through a long, you know, offer wall, you know, ending in some kind of
hard pay wall,
where you're answering questions and quizzing and what have you, that creates
investment.
So both are correct. It just depends what you want to optimize for.
So I said the word core action, only to find this one real quick. So core
action is the primary
user behavior on the app. So it's really easy to spot this. If you don't know
the core action of
your app, you're probably overthinking the question. So I have some examples
here of apps.
So TikTok, the core action of TikTok, I would say is scrolling and watching
content, right,
getting you on the four new page. That's the core action. You know, 1% of the
people are
creating content, but the 99% are consuming content. So I'd say the core action
of an app
like TikTok is scrolling, right? So TikTok would want to maximize for how fast
and at what
rate do we drop them into the core action, right? With TikTok, you open the app
and you can immediately
start swiping. And then you have to sign up when you interact with various tab
icons, right? They
want you to get right into the action. They want you to be immediately immersed
. So that's one core
action. Instagram, I'd say similar, right, photos, create, I'm originally
taking photos, applying
filters, you know, messaging, obviously, expanded a lot. But I'd say like the
core of Instagram is
the feed. And I'd say stories, right? Most people are absorbing content in the
feed, whether it's
the real feed or it's the main feed, or they're watching their friends stories.
That's, I think,
where the main core action is on an app like Instagram, or so an app like
Instagram want to
maximize getting you into the app to get to that core action. You know,
Snapchat, right? Snapchat.
Core action Snapchat is taking pictures, right? Snapping and chatting. The core
action of an app
like bags this is my FinTech app is trading and creating meme coins, right?
That's the core action
of the app. That's what we get everybody to do. You know, at the end of onboard
ing, we prompt you
to fund your wallet. And we have you do that with Apple Pay or we have just
crypto. And our goal is
just to get you into the app so you can start trading with NGL, one of my other
apps. The core
action is posting a link, posting replies, and just having fun on your story,
right? That's the core
action. So we want to get you into the app and want to get you to that core
action as quickly as
possible and at the right rate and have the user be in the right mindset, right
? The user needs to be
primed and programmed and ready for that core action. You know, so chat GPT,
another great example,
prime, you know, the core action of chat GPT is prompting chat GPT, right? So,
typing.
Hinge, primary action would be, you know, sending likes, right? To various
profiles.
That's what they want you to do. They want you to spend time in the feed. What
's app?
Obviously is texting and messaging and the original free texting, free
messaging. That's the core action
and calioc, core action, calioc is obviously scanning food, scanning your items
,
figuring out what's in it, based on calories and various nutrients, and then
logging your food,
having streak and being healthy, right? That's the core action of calioc. So
these are the core
actions and I always like to think about the core actions of an app when I go
into designing
them because we have to think about what is the core action and when do we want
the user to do it
and what do we want them to see before they do it? How are they primed? So we
're going to continue
talking about this. But some notes here. So figure out what the core action
will be at the end of
onboarding and depending on the action you can optimize for short or long
onboarding. So
core actions and onboarding length have a direct relationship. I always keep
them in mind, right?
Because this is going to inform also the next thing I'm going to talk about,
which is the things
that we're going to get into sign up during onboarding and how that correlates
to the core
action of the app as well. So with NGL, it's a short sign up for the sharing
prompt, right?
Maximizes for our outing sharing. It's multiplayer, variable reward, and it's
primarily an external
motivator, right? You want to post an NGL because you want to get other people
to send you messages.
Maybe you saw your friend do it. You want the external motivation, external
validation. You want
to feel cool. You want to feel socially accepted. So we have a short sign up,
right? We want to
get you in there fast to get you into this multiplayer experience. So Kali-i as
another example,
long sign up flow with a hard paywall. This drives investment, right? Because
you go down this
long journey and we're going to show it in a second and it creates some cost.
And it's a single
player experience, more of an internal motivator, right? So different ways of
looking at the apps
and that way you can see, well, a short onboarding works for this, but a long
onboarding actually
works for this, right? And that's the purpose of me bringing these up. Yeah, so
multiplayer,
variable rewards, NGL messages, Instagram likes, single player consistency,
dual lingo streaks, Kali-i streaks. You get the purpose. This is the different
iator here.
But both are correct, ultimately. Long or short onboarding is correct. So next,
we're going to talk about this.
So, depending on the type of app that you're building, you're going to want to
what do you need,
ask for different
information in sign up. This, I think, really comes down to what is required,
and what's a nice to have, right? So a great example of this in the context of
a dating app,
having your age, very important, right? In the context of an app to share
recipes,
maybe your age isn't as important, right? So figuring out what is essential,
what is vital,
what information do I need as the creator of this app, as the designer of this
app, in order to make
sure that I have all the information I need to deliver the user to that core
action, right?
To bring them in, and we have everything we need so they can do their thing,
right? So in the case
of, you know, dating app, how do we get all their information in sign up so we
can build their
profile, and then we can take their profile, and we can push it out to our
users and they can start
swiping, right? So think about what you need to get from the user. So what kind
of authentication,
right? What kind of auth? You could auth with phone, and then a 2FA text code,
you could
auth with email, you could do Apple, Google, X, various single sign on options.
There's many,
many options. The way that I see it is that in absolute lean, I like to lean
away personally,
from complicating the auth unless the user wants to, right? So a great example
of this is in my
FinTech app bags, our auth, we offer basically every option, right? Apple,
Google, X, email, phone,
everything. But we have 2FA as well. So you can, you know, if you want to go
deeper, you can add
even an authentication app, right? If you want to go deeper, it works for that
kind of app,
because it's a FinTech app, right? An app like NGL had no auth when we first
released it. There
was no auth at all. It was simply Asta, and I'm going to show you in a second,
but it hadn't
absolutely no auth. Agent birthday, you know, that's important for certain apps
. Definitely in social
apps, definitely in, you know, various marketplaces, things involving money,
you know, all of that,
of course, gender. That's also very important, right? Dating, of course, super
important,
you know, health and fitness. That's also important. Profile picture, you know,
the thing with profile
pictures, profile picture. So the thing with profile pictures is, I think that
it depends on the app.
I'll say that a lot of the times, unless it makes sense in the right context,
users don't really care
to upload a profile picture and they'll either skip it or they'll upload a
photo that's not them.
So I would just really think about the context in which they're uploading the
profile picture.
You know, I like to grab the profile picture from the social account, right? If
they log in with
X, log in with Instagram, log in with other various methods, I like to just
grab their profile picture
to their PFP at that point and not have them have to upload it. That's just my
preference.
You could also use iCloud.
You could also use iCloud to pull PFP. But I think it works with certain
contexts,
you know, use that with discretion. But I am an interest, very much social
dating,
marketplaces, those types of apps, interactive quizzes. This is a lot,
something I've seen a lot
in apps, you know, apps like Headspace, I've seen in, it's an app like Quitter
that we're going to
talk about soon. Calli, I had these interactive quizzes. This is, you know, a
great feature of
onboarding as like, as a way to prime the user for a paywall. Permissions,
permissions are super
important as well and onboarding. What permissions do we need to grab, any new
grant notifications,
photos, contacts, camera, mic, etc. We need to think about what we're going to
grab because
as you're watching this, you should be thinking about how many things do you
need to grab and
how many screens is that going to be? Right. You're just going to have to have
a photo upload screen,
screen to, you know, confirm the photo. You need the contact prompt. You're
going to need the,
you know, the contact states when they've been invited. You're going to need to
have the
open graph images. So when you, you know, invite your friend over iMessage, it
has a nice, you know,
link image and a nice, you know, piece of text with some good copy. Right.
These are all the things
you got to think about. So I like to start this right when we do onboarding. We
think about what
do we need from the user? So this is NGL. When the app went viral in June of
2022, this was our
onboarding. So as you can see, it is a very, very fast onboarding. In the
previous section,
we talked about how users that came into NGL came in from their friend's
Instagram story.
So it came from their friend's Instagram story. They went on the website, sent
a message,
downloaded the app. Now they're here. So we have an influx of millions of
people trying to get into
this app and participate in the thing that their friends are doing. And they've
gotten the stamp
of approval by all their friends that it's socially acceptable to do. So our
goal was to get them as
quickly as possible into the app and to the core action. With NGL, it was
simply a one question
onboarding. What is your Instagram handle? That's it. That's all we asked for.
No off, nothing.
Since then, we've added a few steps. But this was the core flow that made it
viral.
When you think about the core action on NGL, the only thing that's really
required is to just
know the person's Instagram and to know in order to access their PFP.
So because the NGL core action was sharing something and we wanted to get the
user in quickly,
and we also knew we needed very little information from the user. This is why
we made the decision
to have onboarding be this sparse. I said earlier, I'm going to show you things
that are very
unorthodox. But this is what maximizes virality because remember, we have this
screen, but then
we have copying the link and we have the four step tutorial where the user has
to manually
add the link. And this was before you could automatically copy links on the
stories.
This was before anyone knew how to use the Instagram link feature, right? In
August of 2021,
I co-founded NGL with a couple of friends. This was right when Instagram had
released
the link feature for all users. You used to have to have 10,000 followers in
order to post the link.
So the second that happened, we immediately started working on NGL. At the time
, it was
called something different. I later rebranded it NGL. But ultimately, this
onboarding worked
because of the core action that we required the user to do. And we knew that it
was a complicated
multi-step core action. So we wanted to minimize the time onboarding. The user
was already sold.
We didn't have to sell them. And that's a stark contrast from the next app we
're going to talk about.
So now we're going to talk about another app, which is Cali and I, an app with
over 10 million
downloads and multi-seven figure monthly revenue. Built by a very talented team
, I also add.
And let's dive into this one. Very different onboarding flow than what we just
did with NGL.
So I want to zoom out here, just kind of get like a one of a bird's eye view.
As we can see,
this is a much longer flow, much longer flow, than NGL when it comes to onboard
ing.
So this is a moving GIF. I went to start the beginning, which I think is
awesome because it
demonstrates what the app does. It's showing you what it does. So it shows this
game of food and
a little pop-up coming up. And I think it's a phenomenal way of explaining what
the app does
in a visual way. So definitely very impressive with the onboarding video. So
then you can get
started. We have a few authentication options, Apple, Google, email, pretty
standard. I think
with Cali's demo, it makes a lot of sense to do Apple, Google, and email versus
leading with phone
number. It does make sense to me. I think that this really just comes down to
one information
you want. So if the phone number is important to you, for some reason inside
the app, sure,
grab the phone number. In more social apps, I'd say it makes sense to have
phone number.
But they've opted for these three authentication options. Then we have, this is
if you were to
choose email with the code, then there's a gender option. Really simple, like a
little quiz. How
many workouts do you do per week? So people could really feel like they're
investing into this
app as they're going down this little quiz. We'll progress far at the top, big
back button,
great UI here. And if you really notice what I love about this onboarding is
you know exactly
where to look. The text is really big at the top. We have a clear progression.
So you don't feel
like you're going to be here forever and you do see progress. And you just know
exactly where
to look. The buttons are big. There's haptics. It's very clear. It's really a
very simple onboarding.
And I think that's really the key. And we're going to see that with all the
really all the
onboarding is I'm going to show they are quite simple. As long as they are, the
UI is very clean
and the UX is very simple and it's a recognizable pattern. Right? So these are
very simple patterns
to recognize. So we're showing where did you hear about us? Then we moved to
asking a question
about trying competitors. As I'm sure many people have. Right? So this is this
is a very relevant
question for for Kali because at the end of the onboarding, you guys are going
to see that we have
a hard paywall. Right? So this is really about understanding who are these
people that are coming
into the product. How they try to their apps? Where do they hear about us? And
selling them
on why the product is superior. So we have a really nice animation here
with a great stat. Very clean UI. You just know exactly where it's a look. We
have height and weight.
You know, so people can input that. Obviously it's a calorie tracking app.
Height and weight is important.
When were you born? This is also important, right? The example of asking for
birthday.
We talked about above, you know, why do you ask for certain things and not
others? Right? So for
an app like NGL, you know, we're not going to ask for height and weight. Right?
For an app like Kali Eye, yes, knowing when someone's born is important.
What is your goal? Right? So this is very interesting here. And this is used, I
'm assuming,
to create some kind of split path where you show, yeah, losing weight. And I'm
sure there's
instances for gaining weight and this whole section.
So then we have this question, what is your goal? Right? Another important
question.
Losing weight, maintaining, or gaining weight. So what I like about this
onboarding is we have
a good mix of user is giving information, right? Gender, workouts,
asking these questions to the user, the user's answering. The user is on a
journey of giving
information and sharing yes and no's kind of answering, you know, A or B type
questions,
while getting sold and continuing to input information, continuing to input
information,
then being asked another quiz question, do you see how it's moving? Do you see
how you're not
stuck in the same format? This is a very, very smart onboarding. So I feel like
when it comes
along onboarding, that requires lots of information up front, like Calli does,
right? Because this is
important. You need to have your height away, you need to have where you're
born. We need to know
the goals. These are all important things. We move from goals to what is your
desired weight.
Then we have a screen here that is, you know, programmatic depending on losing
or gaining from
the step here. I like this one a lot, this slider of how fast you want to reach
your goal. I really
like that because that's a question everybody has, right? Think of you're a
user and you want to
lose five pounds, you want to gain five pounds. Question you're going to have
for this, you know,
Calli app is AI app that's going to help me lose weight and help me track my
calories is like,
how quickly can I do it? That's a valid question. So what I like about this
onboarding is that
we're really jumping around into different types of, you know, really nice
interactions, sliders,
buttons, scrolls. It's very dynamic, but at the same time it's very simple
onboarding experience.
So I would definitely look at this one when you're doing your apps and noticing
how there's really
only one accent color, right? It's very mild, chromatic, very simple. And we
move from, you know,
answering a question to being sold again, right? Lose twice as much weight with
Calli versus on
your own. Right? So we got sold a little bit back here. We answered more
questions. We had some fun
with some cool interactions and some haptics. And then now we're here lose
twice as much weight
with Calli on versus on your own. So notice the weaving and how we're filling
out information,
we're answering questions and we're being sold at the same time. Asking about
another,
you ask me other question, following diet, what do you want to accomplish?
Right? And then another
screen of really just positive enforcement, which sometimes really important,
people need
positive enforcement. I love this, you know, this, this, this hand, this, this
high five.
And I love this. Now we have another screen that, you know, really is a
positive reinforcement
type screen. So you go from answering questions to positive reinforcement, you
know, selling the
user that the user, you know, can have that weight transition that they want to
have.
Then we have another screen here for privacy and security, which is just great
for trust factor.
And really, a lot of this is also, you know, it's about gaining trust. It's
about filling this
information out, educating the user on what the app is doing and how the app
can help. And, you know,
really focusing on building trust. We have integrations connecting into your
apps, you know,
skippable, you know, being able to, you know, add these extra things answering
yes and no's,
right? So it's a very interactive, very, very interactive flow. You know, we
asked, we have a,
it's a very interactive flow, which I think is what makes it really good.
Because you're moving
pretty quick through it. The questions are very simple. And the UI interactions
and animations
are very delightful. So it helps push you through this experience. As many
screens as it is, it actually
feels very fast. And there's not really a moment where you don't know where to
look or what to do,
which I really like. Then we have four screens here asking questions, yes and
no, right? We've
switched from the buttons and the swipes and the taps into the yes and no
buttons. We have a,
give us a rating screen, getting a rating screen in onboarding.
It's not something I've personally done. But I do think that it's very valid if
you have a medium
to long onboarding to add that in. Yes. I'll be honest, I haven't really done
that with my apps.
I've really asked for ratings after some kind of magic moment, which we're
going to talk about.
So this is not something that I've done in my own apps. But I think in an app
like Calli
Eye and other apps, it makes a lot of sense. Right? Because the more five star
ratings we have.
I think for an app like Calli Eye, having a rating prompt makes a lot of sense
in onboarding.
Really, the way I see ratings is at the end of the day, on your app store page,
it will build trust.
So asking for an onboarding makes a lot of sense if you have a medium to long
onboarding.
That's just my opinion. It's not something that I've tried with my apps too
often. But I think it's
very valid for a medium onboarding app, especially like the one you're seeing
right here. This is
a great, give us a rating screen. We've ref code screen. And now we have kind
of this satisfying,
okay, we're done. Let's generate a plan. And now we have the AI, you know, have
this really delightful
moment of the AI, you know, generating the plan and having the progress bar
fill up.
Now we have this really nice, delightful screen of, you know, counting up to
100.
And we're setting it up for you, right? So this is a great screen. This is a
great screen. If you
need some time to do things, I love creating delays. And you know, it's
something I've done in other
apps as well, but having something where you weigh a few seconds for the user
to get excited and
to build in dissipation. So I love screens like this. And it's animated. Then
we have that your plan
is ready. Right. So we have this like delivery of something great, like this is
what the AI thinks
you should be doing every day, right? Super simple screen and a very delightful
experience from
here to here. So now the user is here. The next stream would be a paywall. And
I have a couple
different paywalls here. This is the current paywall. So it's very simple and
clean. We're going to
talk about paywalls in the next section, but I'm just going to pop this up here
. This is a trial
paywall. Soltisser. We'll talk about that soon. But this is the call AI onboard
ing. And this is
the NGL onboarding. Both of them are correct. Right. Like I said, both are
correct. It just depends
on what the purpose of the app is. What is the core action? What do we need
from the user for
the core action? Right. Call AI, you need a lot of information in order to when
you scan the food
and you provide these insights, then you can share insights of, Oh, maybe you
should eat more of
this or eat less of this. We have to know your height and your weight. And we
have to know your
gender. We have to know all these things about you versus NGL, which requires
very little information
from the user in order for the core action to be effective. Right. Just sharing
a link on your story.
So I hope that answers the question of what is the right answer. I get this DM
all the time.
What is the right answer? Short or long onboarding. And the answer is both.
[BLANK_AUDIO]